What is git?
**Git is a distributed version control system.
A system that records changes of your file/project and then you are able to recall any specific version or project later.**

1) the command "git init":
this is the first command that we shoul use, it creates the .git directory to be able to use git within our project.

2) the command "git status":
this command gives us on which branch we are working, and it also gives us the list of the untracked files that are not add yet to the staged area to be ready to be committed.

3) the command "git add":
this command is used to add the untracked file to a the staged area. For example, we first create an index.html file. When created this file is by default untracked, and can't be included in a commit. For this reason we use the command "git add":
"git add index.html", then this file will be added to the staged area and can be now included within a commit. Moreover, we can use the command "git add ." or "git add -A" to add all the file within our current dirctory to the staged area.

4) the command "git rm --cached <file>":
we use this command to remove the file from the staged area, and return it as an untracked file.

5) the command "git commit -m "commit name or title" ":
we use this command to make a new commit. After adding the files you want to the staged area, then they are ready to be included in a commit. For example, if we are working on the style of a login screen "login.css", we add the file to the staged area using "git add login.css", after that we can use the command "git commit -m "login screen style commit"
now there will be create a new commit under the name "login screen style commit".

6) the command "git config --global user.name "name" ":
7) the command "git config --global user.email "email" ":

when using git, we have to specify a username and an email. Moreover, to set your name and email you have to use the above 2 commands, for example:
"git config --global user.name "hadi"
"git config --global user.email "ha.hassan2510@hotmail.com"

now I had set my username to "hadi" and my email to "ha.hassan2510@hotmail.com"

note: If we want to know our current username and email we write the above command, but without mentioning the names, for example:
"git config --global user.name" // after clicking on enter, we will obtain the current setted username, and the same is done for email
"git config --global user.email // now we will obtain the setted email address.

8) the command "git log":
this command shows us the history of our made commits in details.

9) the command "git log --oneline":
this command shows us the history of our made commits, but each commit in oneline, more summarized than the above command.


Conclusion:
in this file we had discussed the main git commands, creating a new git directory, adding files to staged area, set username ane email, creating a commit, and viewing our commits history.
Let's go on to continue with more nice commands using git.